[Extremely Common]

DEFINTIONS
down
adverb
o) from a higher to a lower place; toward the ground
o) in, on, or to a lower position or level; specif., to a sitting or reclining position
o) 
     *) in or to a place thought of as lower or below; often, specif., southward
         e.g. to go down to Florida
     *) out of one's hand
         e.g. put it down
o) below the horizon
o) from an earlier to a later period or person
    e.g. down through the years
o) into a low or dejected emotional condition
o) into a low or prostrate physical condition
    e.g. to come down with a cold
o) in or into an inferior position or condition
    e.g. held down by harsh laws
o) to a lower amount, value, or bulk
    e.g. to come down in price
o) 
     *) to a less excited or active condition; into a tranquil or quiet state
         e.g. to settle down
     *) to a lower volume of sound
         e.g. turn down the radio
o) in a serious or earnest manner
    e.g. to get down to work
o) completely; to the full extent
    e.g. loaded down
o) in cash or when bought
    e.g. five dollars down and the remainder in installments
o) in writing; on record
    e.g. take down his name

adjective
o) descending; directed toward a lower position
o) in a lower place; on the ground
o) gone, brought, pulled, etc. down
o) 
     *) depressed; dejected
     *) (slang) depressing or downbeat
         e.g. a down atmosphere
o) dejected; discouraged
o) prostrate; ill
o) completed; finished
    e.g. four down, six to go
o) inoperative
    e.g. the computer is down
o) characterized by low or falling prices
o) (slang) 
     *) (a generalized term of approval meaning variously) nice, good, excellent, etc.
     *) sophisticated, stylish, etc.; cool; hip
o) (sport) 
     *) (US) no longer in play (said of a football)
     *) trailing an opponent by a specified number of points, strokes, etc.
     *) (US, baseball) put out

preposition
o) down or downward, along, through, into, or upon
    e.g. down the street, down the chimney, down the river, down the stairs

transitive verb
o) 
     *) to put, bring, get, throw, or knock down
     *) to defeat, as in a game
o) to gulp or eat rapidly

intransitive verb
o) (rare) to go, come, or get down

noun
o) a downward movement or depressed condition; defeat, misfortune, etc. see also ups and downs[1] at up[1](1)
o) (US, American football) 
     *) one of four consecutive plays in which a team, in order to keep possession of the ball, must either score or advance the ball at least ten yards
     *) the declaring of the ball as down, or no longer in play
o) (slang) a barbiturate or other depressant drug; downer


down
noun
o) soft, fluffy feathers, as the outer covering on young birds or an inner layer of feathers on adult birds
o) soft, fine hair or hairy growth


down
noun
o) an expanse of open, high, grassy land (usually used in pl.)


Down
o) former county of E Northern Ireland: c. 952 sq mi (2,466 sq km)
o) district in E Northern Ireland, in the S part of the former county: 249 sq mi (645 sq km); pop. 58,000


down-
o) down
    e.g. downhill


TRANSLATIONS
Down means at or to a lower level or position.A man came down the stairs to meet them.
If you say that someone downs food or a drink, you mean that they eat or drink it.We downed bottles of local wine.
Down consists of the small, soft feathers on young birds. Down is used to make bed-covers and pillows.... goose down.


SYNONYMS
down
adjective
o) depressed, dejected, disheartened, downcast, low, miserable, sad, unhappy

verb
o) (informal) = swallow, drain, drink, drink down, gulp, put away, toss off

noun
o) See have a down on


RELATED
Down East, back down, bear down, beat down, bed down, boil down, burn down, call down, cast down, come down, cool down, cool-down, cry down, cut down, do down, down and out, down on, down to the ground, down with!, down-, down-bow, down-home, dumb down, face down, gear down, get down, go down, hand down, hold down, howl down, hull down, hunt down, kick down, lay down, let down, live down, mark down, melt down, mow down, nail down, pay down, pin down, pipe down, play down, pull down, put down, put-down, ride down, rub down, run down, run-down, send down, set down, shut down, sit down, sit-down, tie down
