DEFINTIONS
do
[Extremely Common]

origin
Old English dōn; related to Old Frisian duān, Old High German tuon, Latin abdere to put away, Greek tithenai to place; see deed, doom

verb (does, doing, did, done)
o) to perform or complete (a deed or action)
    e.g. to do a portrait; the work is done
o) used as an auxiliary to replace an earlier verb or verb phrase to avoid repetition
    e.g. he likes you as much as I do
o) (i) See do
o) (i) See do or die
o) (i) See how do you do?
o) (i) See make do

intransitive:
o) to conduct oneself
    e.g. do as you please
o) to fare or manage
    e.g. how are you doing these days?
o) to happen (esp in the phrase nothing doing)

often intr; foll by for:
o) to serve the needs of; be suitable for (a person, situation, etc); suffice
    e.g. there isn't much food, but it'll do for the two of us

takes an infinitive without to:
o) used as an auxiliary before the subject of an interrogative sentence as a way of forming a question
    e.g. do you agree?; when did John go out?
o) used as an auxiliary to intensify positive statements and commands
    e.g. I do like your new house; do hurry!
o) used as an auxiliary before a negative adverb to form negative statements or commands
    e.g. he does not like cheese; do not leave me here alone!
o) used as an auxiliary in inverted constructions
    e.g. little did he realize that; only rarely does he come in before ten o'clock

transitive:
o) to arrange or fix
    e.g. you should do the garden now
o) to prepare or provide; serve
    e.g. this restaurant doesn't do lunch on Sundays
o) to make tidy, elegant, ready, etc, as by arranging or adorning
    e.g. to do one's hair
o) to improve (esp in the phrase do something to or for)
o) to find an answer to (a problem or puzzle)
o) to translate or adapt the form or language of
    e.g. the book was done into a play
o) to cause or produce
    e.g. complaints do nothing to help
o) to give or render
    e.g. your portrait doesn't do you justice; do me a favour
o) to work at, esp as a course of study or a profession
    e.g. he is doing chemistry; what do you do for a living?
o) to perform (a play, etc); act
    e.g. they are doing 'Hamlet' next week
o) to travel at a specified speed, esp as a maximum
    e.g. this car will do 120 mph
o) to travel or traverse (a distance)
    e.g. we did 15 miles on our walk
o) (informal) to visit or explore as a sightseer or tourist
    e.g. to do Westminster Abbey
o) to wear out; exhaust
o) (slang) to serve (a period of time) as a prison sentence
    e.g. he's doing three years for burglary; he's doing time
o) (informal) to cheat or swindle
o) (slang) to rob
    e.g. they did three shops last night
o) (slang) 
     *) to arrest
     *) to convict of a crime
o) (Australian informal) to lose or spend (money) completely
o) (slang, mainly British) to treat violently; assault
o) (slang) to take or use (a drug)
o) (taboo, slang) (of a male) to have sexual intercourse with
o) to arrange (a meal)
    e.g. let's do lunch


noun (dos, do's) -- plural
o) (slang) an act or instance of cheating or swindling
o) (informal, mainly British and New Zealand) a formal or festive gathering; party
o) (i) See do's and don'ts


do or do a
o) (informal) to act like; imitate
    e.g. he's a good mimic – he can do all his friends well


do
noun (dos) -- plural
o) (i) a variant spelling of doh


do
the internet domain name for
o) Dominican Republic


DO
abbreviation for
o) Doctor of Optometry
o) Doctor of Osteopathy


do.
abbreviation for
o) ditto


TRANSLATIONS
do
verb
If you do something, you spend some time on it or finish it.
    e.g. I tried to do some work.



EXAMPLES
o) Then again, not to do him down too much, he does have his more positive side.
o) I'd shouted: You want her to be French, do n't you, you can't stand the idea of Jessica being English!
o) He was accusing me of being complicit in a murder, or being a murderer, I do n't know which.
o) "You should write the general principles down somewhere, Dad, like they do with the United States Code.


