[Extremely Common]

DEFINTIONS
do
transitive verb
o) 
     to execute; effect; perform (an act, action, etc.)
         e.g. do great deeds
     to carry out; fulfill
         e.g. do what I tell you
o) to bring to completion; finish
    e.g. dinner has been done for an hour
o) to bring about; cause; produce
    e.g. it does no harm; who did this to you?
o) to exert (efforts, etc.)
    e.g. do your best
o) to have or take (a meal)
    e.g. let's do lunch
o) to deal with as is required; attend to
    e.g. do the ironing, do one's nails or hair
o) to have as one's work or occupation; work at or on
    e.g. what does he do for a living?
o) to work out; solve
    e.g. do a problem
o) to produce or appear in (a play, etc.)
    e.g. we did Hamlet
o) 
     to play the role of
         e.g. I did Polonius
     (informal) to imitate, or behave characteristically as
         e.g. to do a Houdini
o) to write or publish (a book), compose (a musical score), etc.
o) 
     to cover (distance)
         e.g. to do a mile in four minutes
     to move along at a speed of
         e.g. to do 60 miles an hour
o) to visit as a sightseer; tour
    e.g. they did England in two months
o) to translate
    e.g. to do Horace into English
o) to give; render
    e.g. to do honor to the dead
o) to suit; be convenient to
    e.g. this will do me very well
o) (informal) 
     to prepare; cook
         e.g. that restaurant does ribs really well
     to eat
         e.g. let's do Mexican tonight
o) (informal) to cheat; swindle
    e.g. you've been done
o) (informal) to serve (a jail term)
o) (slang) to take; ingest; use
    e.g. we've never done drugs
o) (slang) to perform a sexual act upon; specif., to have sexual intercourse with
o) (slang) to kill

intransitive verb
o) to act in a specified way; behave
    e.g. he does well when treated well
o) to be active; work
    e.g. do; don't merely talk
o) to finish (used in the perfect tense [have done with dreaming ])
o) to get along; fare
    e.g. mother and child are doing well
o) to be adequate or suitable; serve the purpose
    e.g. the black dress will do
o) to take place; go on
    e.g. anything doing tonight?
o) (mainly British, informal) used as a substitute verb after a modal auxiliary or a form of have in a perfect tense
    e.g. I haven't seen the film, but she may have done

auxiliary verb
o) used to give emphasis, or as a legal convention
    e.g. do stay a while, do hereby enjoin
o) used to ask a question
    e.g. did you write?
o) used to serve as part of a negative command or statement
    e.g. do not go, they do not like it
o) used to serve as a substitute verb
    e.g. love me as I do (love) you
o) used to form inverted constructions after some adverbs
    e.g. little did he realize

noun
o) (mainly British, informal) a hoax; swindle
o) (mainly British, informal) a party or social event
o) (slang) excrement; feces
    e.g. dog do


do
noun
o) (music) a syllable representing the first or last tone of the diatonic scale see also solfeggio[1]


do
noun
o) (slang) hairdo[1]


Do or do
o) ditto


DO or D.O.
o) Doctor of Osteopathy


TRANSLATIONS
When you do something, you take some action or perform an activity or task.I was trying to do some work. done


SYNONYMS
do
verb
o) perform, accomplish, achieve, carry out, complete, execute
o) be adequate, be sufficient, cut the mustard, pass muster, satisfy, suffice
o) get ready, arrange, fix, look after, prepare, see to
o) solve, decipher, decode, figure out, puzzle out, resolve, work out
o) cause, bring about, create, effect, produce

noun
o) (informal mainly British New Zealand) = event, affair, function, gathering, occasion, party


EXAMPLES
o) You should write the general principles down somewhere, Dad, like they do with the United States Code.

RELATED
How do you do?, Mato Grosso do Sul, Rio Grande do Norte, Rio Grande do Sul, can-do, derring-do, do a deal, do a number on, do away with, do business with, do by, do credit to, do down, do duty for, do gree, do honor to, do in, do it, do justice to, do one's (or its) business, do one's bit, do one's damnedest (or damndest), do oneself justice, do oneself proud, do oneself well, do over, do penance, do someone dirt, do tell!, do the bidding of, do the honors, do the trick, do time, do to death, do up, do up brown, do up right, do with, do without, do wonders for, do's and don'ts, do-gooder, do-it-yourself, do-nothing, do-or-die, do-rag, do-si-do, have to do with, how-do-you-do, make do, ne'er-do-well, tae kwon do, to-do, well-to-do, whoop-de-do
